---
title: ngx_stream_log_module
description: ngx_stream_log_module
toc: true
nd-org-source: stream/ngx_stream_log_module.xml
nd-plus: false
nd-partial-plus: false
---


<!--
      ********************************************************************************
      🛑 WARNING: AUTOGENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT 🛑 This Markdown file was
      automatically generated from the source XML documentation. Any manual
      changes made directly to this file will be overwritten. To request or
      suggest changes, please edit the source XML files instead.
      https://github.com/nginx/nginx.org/tree/main/xml/en
      ********************************************************************************
      -->


The `ngx_stream_log_module` module (1.11.4) writes session logs
in the specified format.
## Example Configuration


```nginx
log_format basic '$remote_addr [$time_local] '
                 '$protocol $status $bytes_sent $bytes_received '
                 '$session_time';

access_log /spool/logs/nginx-access.log basic buffer=32k;

```

## Directives

### access_log

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** access_log `path` `format` [ `buffer` = `size` ] [ `gzip[=level]` ] [ `flush` = `time` ] [ `if` = `condition` ]

**Syntax:** access_log `off`

**Default:** off

**Context:** stream, server


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the path, [format](#log_format),
and configuration for a buffered log write.
Several logs can be specified on the same configuration level.
Logging to [syslog](/nginx/module-reference/../syslog)
can be configured by specifying
the “`syslog:`” prefix in the first parameter.
The special value `off` cancels all
`access_log` directives on the current level.

If either the `buffer` or `gzip`
parameter is used, writes to log will be buffered.

The buffer size must not exceed the size of an atomic write to a disk file.
For FreeBSD this size is unlimited.

When buffering is enabled, the data will be written to the file:

- if the next log line does not fit into the buffer;
- if the buffered data is older than specified by the `flush` parameter;
- when a worker process is [re-opening](/nginx/module-reference/../control) log files or is shutting down.


If the `gzip` parameter is used, then the buffered data will
be compressed before writing to the file.
The compression level can be set between 1 (fastest, less compression)
and 9 (slowest, best compression).
By default, the buffer size is equal to 64K bytes, and the compression level
is set to 1.
Since the data is compressed in atomic blocks, the log file can be decompressed
or read by “`zcat`” at any time.

Example:

```nginx
access_log /path/to/log.gz basic gzip flush=5m;

```


For gzip compression to work, nginx must be built with the zlib library.

The file path can contain variables,
but such logs have some constraints:

- the [user](/nginx/module-reference/../ngx_core_module#user) whose credentials are used by worker processes should have permissions to create files in a directory with such logs;
- buffered writes do not work;
- the file is opened and closed for each log write. However, since the descriptors of frequently used files can be stored in a [cache](#open_log_file_cache) , writing to the old file can continue during the time specified by the [](#open_log_file_cache) directive’s `valid` parameter


The `if` parameter enables conditional logging.
A session will not be logged if the `condition` evaluates to “0”
or an empty string.
### log_format

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** log_format `name` [ `escape` = `default` | `json` | `none` ] `string` ...

**Default:** -

**Context:** stream


{{</call-out>}}


Specifies the log format, for example:

```nginx
log_format proxy '$remote_addr [$time_local] '
                 '$protocol $status $bytes_sent $bytes_received '
                 '$session_time "$upstream_addr" '
                 '"$upstream_bytes_sent" "$upstream_bytes_received" "$upstream_connect_time"';

```


The `escape` parameter (1.11.8) allows setting
`json` or `default` characters escaping
in variables, by default, `default` escaping is used.
The `none` parameter (1.13.10) disables escaping.

For `default` escaping,
characters “`"`”, “`\`”,
and other characters with values less than 32 or above 126
are escaped as “`\xXX`”.
If the variable value is not found,
a hyphen (“`-`”) will be logged.

For `json` escaping,
all characters not allowed
in JSON [strings](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8259#section-7)
will be escaped:
characters “`"`” and
“`\`” are escaped as
“`\"`” and “`\\`”,
characters with values less than 32 are escaped as
“`\n`”,
“`\r`”,
“`\t`”,
“`\b`”,
“`\f`”, or
“`\u00XX`”.
### open_log_file_cache

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** open_log_file_cache `max` = `N` [ `inactive` = `time` ] [ `min_uses` = `N` ] [ `valid` = `time` ]

**Syntax:** open_log_file_cache `off`

**Default:** off

**Context:** stream, server


{{</call-out>}}


Defines a cache that stores the file descriptors of frequently used logs
whose names contain variables.
The directive has the following parameters:
`max`
sets the maximum number of descriptors in a cache;
if the cache becomes full the least recently used (LRU)
descriptors are closed
`inactive`
sets the time after which the cached descriptor is closed
if there were no access during this time;
by default, 10 seconds
`min_uses`
sets the minimum number of file uses during the time
defined by the `inactive` parameter
to let the descriptor stay open in a cache;
by default, 1
`valid`
sets the time after which it should be checked that the file
still exists with the same name; by default, 60 seconds
`off`
disables caching

Usage example:

```nginx
open_log_file_cache max=1000 inactive=20s valid=1m min_uses=2;

```

