---
title: ngx_stream_map_module
description: ngx_stream_map_module
toc: true
nd-org-source: stream/ngx_stream_map_module.xml
nd-plus: false
nd-partial-plus: false
---


<!--
********************************************************************************
🛑 WARNING: AUTOGENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT 🛑
This Markdown file was automatically generated from the source XML documentation.
Any manual changes made directly to this file will be overwritten.
To request or suggest changes, please edit the source XML files instead.
https://github.com/nginx/nginx.org/tree/main/xml/en
********************************************************************************
-->


The `ngx_stream_map_module` module (1.11.2) creates variables
whose values depend on values of other variables.
## Example Configuration


```nginx
map $remote_addr $limit {
    127.0.0.1    "";
    default      $binary_remote_addr;
}

limit_conn_zone $limit zone=addr:10m;
limit_conn addr 1;

```

## Directives

### map

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** map `string` `$variable`

**Default:** -

**Context:** stream


{{</call-out>}}


Creates a new variable whose value
depends on values of one or more of the source variables
specified in the first parameter.

Since variables are evaluated only when they are used, the mere declaration
even of a large number of “`map`” variables
does not add any extra costs to connection processing.

Parameters inside the `map` block specify a mapping
between source and resulting values.

Source values are specified as strings or regular expressions.

Strings are matched ignoring the case.

A regular expression should either start from the “`~`”
symbol for a case-sensitive matching, or from the “`~*`”
symbols for case-insensitive matching.
A regular expression can contain named and positional captures
that can later be used in other directives along with the
resulting variable.

If a source value matches one of the names of special parameters
described below, it should be prefixed with the “`\`” symbol.

The resulting value can contain text,
variable, and their combination.

The following special parameters are also supported:
`default``value`
sets the resulting value if the source value matches none
of the specified variants.
When `default` is not specified, the default
resulting value will be an empty string.
`hostnames`
indicates that source values can be hostnames with a prefix or suffix mask:

```nginx
*.example.com 1;
example.*     1;

```


The following two records

```nginx
example.com   1;
*.example.com 1;

```


can be combined:

```nginx
.example.com  1;

```


This parameter should be specified before the list of values.
`include``file`
includes a file with values.
There can be several inclusions.
`volatile`
indicates that the variable is not cacheable (1.11.7).

If the source value matches more than one of the specified variants,
e.g. both a mask and a regular expression match, the first matching
variant will be chosen, in the following order of priority:
- string value without a mask
- longest string value with a prefix mask, e.g. “ `*.example.com` ”
- longest string value with a suffix mask, e.g. “ `mail.*` ”
- first matching regular expression (in order of appearance in a configuration file)
- default value
### map_hash_bucket_size

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** map_hash_bucket_size `size`

**Default:** 32|64|128

**Context:** stream


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the bucket size for the [](#map) variables hash tables.
Default value depends on the processor’s cache line size.
The details of setting up hash tables are provided in a separate
[document](/nginx/module-reference/../hash).
### map_hash_max_size

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** map_hash_max_size `size`

**Default:** 2048

**Context:** stream


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the maximum `size` of the [](#map) variables
hash tables.
The details of setting up hash tables are provided in a separate
[document](/nginx/module-reference/../hash).
