---
title: ngx_http_auth_jwt_module
description: ngx_http_auth_jwt_module
toc: true
nd-org-source: http/ngx_http_auth_jwt_module.xml
nd-plus: true
nd-partial-plus: false
---


<!--
      ********************************************************************************
      🛑 WARNING: AUTOGENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT 🛑 This Markdown file was
      automatically generated from the source XML documentation. Any manual
      changes made directly to this file will be overwritten. To request or
      suggest changes, please edit the source XML files instead.
      https://github.com/nginx/nginx.org/tree/main/xml/en
      ********************************************************************************
      -->


The `ngx_http_auth_jwt_module` module (1.11.3)
implements client authorization by validating the provided
[JSON Web Token](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519) (JWT)
using the specified keys.
The module supports
[JSON Web Signature](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7515) (JWS),
[JSON Web Encryption](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7516) (JWE)
(1.19.7), and Nested JWT (1.21.0).
The module can be used for
[OpenID Connect](http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html)
authentication.

The module may be combined with
other access modules, such as
[ngx_http_access_module](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_access_module),
[ngx_http_auth_basic_module](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_auth_basic_module),
and
[ngx_http_auth_request_module](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_auth_request_module),
via the [satisfy](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_core_module#satisfy) directive.

This module is available as part of our
commercial subscription.
## Supported Algorithms


The module supports the following JSON Web
[Algorithms](https://www.iana.org/assignments/jose/jose.xhtml#web-signature-encryption-algorithms).

JWS algorithms:

- HS256, HS384, HS512
- RS256, RS384, RS512
- ES256, ES384, ES512
- EdDSA (Ed25519 and Ed448 signatures) (1.15.7)


Prior to version 1.13.7,
only HS256, RS256, ES256 algorithms were supported.

JWE content encryption algorithms (1.19.7):

- A128CBC-HS256, A192CBC-HS384, A256CBC-HS512
- A128GCM, A192GCM, A256GCM


JWE key management algorithms (1.19.9):

- A128KW, A192KW, A256KW
- A128GCMKW, A192GCMKW, A256GCMKW
- dir - direct use of a shared symmetric key as the content encryption key
- RSA-OAEP, RSA-OAEP-256, RSA-OAEP-384, RSA-OAEP-512 (1.21.0)

## Example Configuration


```nginx
location / {
    auth_jwt          "closed site";
    auth_jwt_key_file conf/keys.json;
}

```

## Directives

### auth_jwt

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** auth_jwt `string` [ `token=` `$variable` ] | `off`

**Default:** off

**Context:** http, server, location, limit_except


{{</call-out>}}


Enables validation of JSON Web Token.
The specified `string` is used as a `realm`.
Parameter value can contain variables.

The optional `token` parameter specifies a variable
that contains JSON Web Token.
By default, JWT is passed in the `Authorization` header
as a
[Bearer Token](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6750).
JWT may be also passed as a cookie or a part of a query string:

```nginx
auth_jwt "closed site" token=$cookie_auth_token;

```


The special value `off` cancels the effect
of the `auth_jwt` directive
inherited from the previous configuration level.
### auth_jwt_claim_set

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** auth_jwt_claim_set `$variable` `name` ...

**Default:** -

**Context:** http

_This directive appeared in version 1.11.10._


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the `variable` to a JWT claim parameter
identified by key names.
Name matching starts from the top level of the JSON tree.
For arrays, the variable keeps a list of array elements separated by commas.

```nginx
auth_jwt_claim_set $email info e-mail;
auth_jwt_claim_set $job info "job title";

```


Prior to version 1.13.7, only one key name could be specified,
and the result was undefined for arrays.

Variable values for tokens encrypted with JWE
are available only after decryption which occurs during the
[Access](/nginx/module-reference/../dev/development_guide#http_phases) phase.
### auth_jwt_header_set

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** auth_jwt_header_set `$variable` `name` ...

**Default:** -

**Context:** http

_This directive appeared in version 1.11.10._


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the `variable` to a JOSE header parameter
identified by key names.
Name matching starts from the top level of the JSON tree.
For arrays, the variable keeps a list of array elements separated by commas.

Prior to version 1.13.7, only one key name could be specified,
and the result was undefined for arrays.
### auth_jwt_key_cache

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** auth_jwt_key_cache `time`

**Default:** 0

**Context:** http, server, location

_This directive appeared in version 1.21.4._


{{</call-out>}}


Enables or disables caching of keys
obtained from a [file](#auth_jwt_key_file)
or from a [subrequest](#auth_jwt_key_request),
and sets caching time for them.
Caching of keys obtained from variables is not supported.
By default, caching of keys is disabled.
### auth_jwt_key_file

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** auth_jwt_key_file `file`

**Default:** -

**Context:** http, server, location, limit_except


{{</call-out>}}


Specifies a `file` in
[JSON Web Key Set](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517#section-5)
format for validating JWT signature.
Parameter value can contain variables.

Several `auth_jwt_key_file` directives
can be specified on the same level (1.21.1):

```nginx
auth_jwt_key_file conf/keys.json;
auth_jwt_key_file conf/key.jwk;

```


If at least one of the specified keys cannot be loaded or processed,
nginx will return the
 error.
### auth_jwt_key_request

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** auth_jwt_key_request `uri`

**Default:** -

**Context:** http, server, location, limit_except

_This directive appeared in version 1.15.6._


{{</call-out>}}


Allows retrieving a
[JSON Web Key Set](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517#section-5)
file from a subrequest for validating JWT signature and
sets the URI where the subrequest will be sent to.
Parameter value can contain variables.
To avoid validation overhead,
it is recommended to cache the key file:

```nginx
proxy_cache_path /data/nginx/cache levels=1 keys_zone=foo:10m;

server {
    ...

    location / {
        auth_jwt             "closed site";
        auth_jwt_key_request /jwks_uri;
    }

    location = /jwks_uri {
        internal;
        proxy_cache foo;
        proxy_pass  http://idp.example.com/keys;
    }
}

```


Several `auth_jwt_key_request` directives
can be specified on the same level (1.21.1):

```nginx
auth_jwt_key_request /jwks_uri;
auth_jwt_key_request /jwks2_uri;

```


If at least one of the specified keys cannot be loaded or processed,
nginx will return the
 error.
### auth_jwt_leeway

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** auth_jwt_leeway `time`

**Default:** 0s

**Context:** http, server, location

_This directive appeared in version 1.13.10._


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the maximum allowable leeway to compensate
clock skew when verifying the
[exp](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519#section-4.1.4)
and
[nbf](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519#section-4.1.5)
JWT claims.
### auth_jwt_type

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** auth_jwt_type `signed` | `encrypted` | `nested`

**Default:** signed

**Context:** http, server, location, limit_except

_This directive appeared in version 1.19.7._


{{</call-out>}}


Specifies which type of JSON Web Token to expect:
JWS (`signed`),
JWE (`encrypted`),
or signed and then encrypted
Nested JWT (`nested`) (1.21.0).
### auth_jwt_require

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** auth_jwt_require `$value` ... [ `error` = `401` | `403` ]

**Default:** -

**Context:** http, server, location, limit_except

_This directive appeared in version 1.21.2._


{{</call-out>}}


Specifies additional checks for JWT validation.
The value can contain text, variables, and their combination,
and must start with a variable (1.21.7).
The authentication will succeed only
if all the values are not empty and are not equal to “0”.

```nginx
map $jwt_claim_iss $valid_jwt_iss {
    "good" 1;
}
...

auth_jwt_require $valid_jwt_iss;

```


If any of the checks fails,
the `401` error code is returned.
The optional `error` parameter (1.21.7)
allows redefining the error code to `403`.
## Embedded Variables


The `ngx_http_auth_jwt_module` module
supports embedded variables:
`$jwt_header_``name`
returns the value of a specified
[JOSE header](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7515#section-4)`$jwt_claim_``name`
returns the value of a specified
[JWT claim](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519#section-4)
For nested claims and claims including a dot (“.”),
the value of the variable cannot be evaluated;
the [](#auth_jwt_claim_set) directive should be used instead.

Variable values for tokens encrypted with JWE
are available only after decryption which occurs during the
[Access](/nginx/module-reference/../dev/development_guide#http_phases) phase.
`$jwt_payload`
returns the decrypted top-level payload
of `nested`
or `encrypted` tokens (1.21.2).
For nested tokens returns the enclosed JWS token.
For encrypted tokens returns JSON with claims.
