---
title: ngx_http_charset_module
description: ngx_http_charset_module
toc: true
nd-org-source: http/ngx_http_charset_module.xml
nd-plus: false
nd-partial-plus: false
---


<!--
********************************************************************************
🛑 WARNING: AUTOGENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT 🛑
This Markdown file was automatically generated from the source XML documentation.
Any manual changes made directly to this file will be overwritten.
To request or suggest changes, please edit the source XML files instead.
https://github.com/nginx/nginx.org/tree/main/xml/en
********************************************************************************
-->


The `ngx_http_charset_module` module adds the specified
charset to the `Content-Type` response header field.
In addition, the module can convert data from one charset to another,
with some limitations:

- conversion is performed one way — from server to client,
- only single-byte charsets can be converted
- or single-byte charsets to/from UTF-8.

## Example Configuration


```nginx
include        conf/koi-win;

charset        windows-1251;
source_charset koi8-r;

```

## Directives

### charset

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** charset `charset` | `off`

**Default:** off

**Context:** http, server, location, if in location


{{</call-out>}}


Adds the specified charset to the `Content-Type`
response header field.
If this charset is different from the charset specified
in the [](#source_charset) directive, a conversion is performed.

The parameter `off` cancels the addition of charset
to the `Content-Type` response header field.

A charset can be defined with a variable:

```nginx
charset $charset;

```


In such a case, all possible values of a variable need to be present
in the configuration at least once in the form of the
[](#charset_map), [](#charset), or
[](#source_charset) directives.
For `utf-8`, `windows-1251`, and
`koi8-r` charsets, it is sufficient to include the files
conf/koi-win, conf/koi-utf, and
conf/win-utf into configuration.
For other charsets, simply making a fictitious conversion table works,
for example:

```nginx
charset_map iso-8859-5 _ { }

```


In addition, a charset can be set in the
`X-Accel-Charset` response header field.
This capability can be disabled using the
[proxy_ignore_headers](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_proxy_module#proxy_ignore_headers),
[fastcgi_ignore_headers](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_fastcgi_module#fastcgi_ignore_headers),
[uwsgi_ignore_headers](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_uwsgi_module#uwsgi_ignore_headers),
[scgi_ignore_headers](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_scgi_module#scgi_ignore_headers),
and
[grpc_ignore_headers](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_grpc_module#grpc_ignore_headers)
directives.
### charset_map

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** charset_map `charset1` `charset2`

**Default:** -

**Context:** http


{{</call-out>}}


Describes the conversion table from one charset to another.
A reverse conversion table is built using the same data.
Character codes are given in hexadecimal.
Missing characters in the range 80-FF are replaced with “`?`”.
When converting from UTF-8, characters missing in a one-byte charset
are replaced with “`&#XXXX;`”.

Example:

```nginx
charset_map koi8-r windows-1251 {
    C0 FE ; # small yu
    C1 E0 ; # small a
    C2 E1 ; # small b
    C3 F6 ; # small ts
    ...
}

```


When describing a conversion table to UTF-8, codes for the UTF-8 charset should
be given in the second column, for example:

```nginx
charset_map koi8-r utf-8 {
    C0 D18E ; # small yu
    C1 D0B0 ; # small a
    C2 D0B1 ; # small b
    C3 D186 ; # small ts
    ...
}

```


Full conversion tables from `koi8-r` to
`windows-1251`, and from `koi8-r` and
`windows-1251` to `utf-8`
are provided in the distribution files conf/koi-win,
conf/koi-utf, and conf/win-utf.
### charset_types

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** charset_types `mime-type` ...

**Default:** text/html text/xml text/plain text/vnd.wap.wml application/javascript application/rss+xml

**Context:** http, server, location

_This directive appeared in version 0.7.9._


{{</call-out>}}


Enables module processing in responses with the specified MIME types
in addition to “`text/html`”.
The special value “`*`” matches any MIME type (0.8.29).

Until version 1.5.4, “`application/x-javascript`” was used
as the default MIME type instead of “`application/javascript`”.
### override_charset

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** override_charset `on` | `off`

**Default:** off

**Context:** http, server, location, if in location


{{</call-out>}}


Determines whether a conversion should be performed for answers
received from a proxied or a FastCGI/uwsgi/SCGI/gRPC server
when the answers already carry a charset in the `Content-Type`
response header field.
If conversion is enabled, a charset specified in the received
response is used as a source charset.

It should be noted that if a response is received in a subrequest
then the conversion from the response charset to the main request charset
is always performed, regardless of the `override_charset`
directive setting.
### source_charset

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** source_charset `charset`

**Default:** -

**Context:** http, server, location, if in location


{{</call-out>}}


Defines the source charset of a response.
If this charset is different from the charset specified
in the [](#charset) directive, a conversion is performed.
