---
title: ngx_http_stub_status_module
description: ngx_http_stub_status_module
toc: true
nd-org-source: http/ngx_http_stub_status_module.xml
nd-plus: false
nd-partial-plus: false
---


<!--
********************************************************************************
🛑 WARNING: AUTOGENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT 🛑
This Markdown file was automatically generated from the source XML documentation.
Any manual changes made directly to this file will be overwritten.
To request or suggest changes, please edit the source XML files instead.
https://github.com/nginx/nginx.org/tree/main/xml/en
********************************************************************************
-->


The `ngx_http_stub_status_module` module provides
access to basic status information.

This module is not built by default, it should be enabled with the
`--with-http_stub_status_module`
configuration parameter.
## Example Configuration


```nginx
location = /basic_status {
    stub_status;
}

```


This configuration creates a simple web page
with basic status data which may look like as follows:

```nginx
Active connections: 291
server accepts handled requests
 16630948 16630948 31070465
Reading: 6 Writing: 179 Waiting: 106

```

## Directives

### stub_status

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** stub_status 

**Default:** -

**Context:** server, location


{{</call-out>}}


The basic status information will be accessible from the surrounding location.

In versions prior to 1.7.5,
the directive syntax required an arbitrary argument, for example,
“`stub_status on`”.
## Data


The following status information is provided:
`Active connections`
The current number of active client connections
including `Waiting` connections.
`accepts`
The total number of accepted client connections.
`handled`
The total number of handled connections.
Generally, the parameter value is the same as `accepts`
unless some resource limits have been reached
(for example, the
[worker_connections](/nginx/module-reference/../ngx_core_module#worker_connections) limit).
`requests`
The total number of client requests.
`Reading`
The current number of connections where nginx is reading the request header.
`Writing`
The current number of connections
where nginx is writing the response back to the client.
`Waiting`
The current number of idle client connections waiting for a request.
## Embedded Variables


The `ngx_http_stub_status_module` module
supports the following embedded variables (1.3.14):
`$connections_active`
same as the `Active connections` value;
`$connections_reading`
same as the `Reading` value;
`$connections_writing`
same as the `Writing` value;
`$connections_waiting`
same as the `Waiting` value.
