---
title: ngx_http_v2_module
description: ngx_http_v2_module
toc: true
nd-org-source: http/ngx_http_v2_module.xml
nd-plus: false
nd-partial-plus: false
---


<!--
********************************************************************************
🛑 WARNING: AUTOGENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT 🛑
This Markdown file was automatically generated from the source XML documentation.
Any manual changes made directly to this file will be overwritten.
To request or suggest changes, please edit the source XML files instead.
https://github.com/nginx/nginx.org/tree/main/xml/en
********************************************************************************
-->


The `ngx_http_v2_module` module (1.9.5) provides
support for
[HTTP/2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7540).

This module is not built by default, it should be enabled with
the `--with-http_v2_module`
configuration parameter.
## Known Issues


Before version 1.9.14,
buffering of a client request body could not be disabled
regardless of
[proxy_request_buffering](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_proxy_module#proxy_request_buffering),
[fastcgi_request_buffering](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_fastcgi_module#fastcgi_request_buffering),
[uwsgi_request_buffering](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_uwsgi_module#uwsgi_request_buffering), and
[scgi_request_buffering](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_scgi_module#scgi_request_buffering)
directive values.

Before version 1.19.1,
the [lingering_close](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_core_module#lingering_close) mechanism
was not used to control closing HTTP/2 connections.
## Example Configuration


```nginx
server {
    listen 443 ssl;

    http2 on;

    ssl_certificate server.crt;
    ssl_certificate_key server.key;
}

```


Note that accepting HTTP/2 connections over TLS requires
the “Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation” (ALPN) TLS extension
support, which is available since
[OpenSSL](http://www.openssl.org) version 1.0.2.

Also note that if the
[ssl_prefer_server_ciphers](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_ssl_module#ssl_prefer_server_ciphers) directive
is set to the value “`on`”,
the [ciphers](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_ssl_module#ssl_ciphers)
should be configured to comply with
[RFC 9113, Appendix A](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9113#appendix-A)
black list and supported by clients.
## Directives

### http2

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** http2 `on` | `off`

**Default:** off

**Context:** http, server

_This directive appeared in version 1.25.1._


{{</call-out>}}


Enables
the [HTTP/2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9113)
protocol.
### http2_body_preread_size

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** http2_body_preread_size `size`

**Default:** 64k

**Context:** http, server

_This directive appeared in version 1.11.0._


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the `size` of the buffer per each request
in which the request body may be saved
before it is started to be processed.
### http2_chunk_size

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** http2_chunk_size `size`

**Default:** 8k

**Context:** http, server, location


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the maximum size of chunks
into which the response body is sliced.
A too low value results in higher overhead.
A too high value impairs prioritization due to
[
HOL blocking](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head-of-line_blocking).
### http2_idle_timeout

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** http2_idle_timeout `time`

**Default:** 3m

**Context:** http, server


{{</call-out>}}


This directive is obsolete since version 1.19.7.
The [keepalive_timeout](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_core_module#keepalive_timeout)
directive should be used instead.

Sets the timeout of inactivity after which the connection is closed.
### http2_max_concurrent_pushes

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** http2_max_concurrent_pushes `number`

**Default:** 10

**Context:** http, server

_This directive appeared in version 1.13.9._


{{</call-out>}}


This directive is obsolete since version 1.25.1.

Limits the maximum number of concurrent
[push](#http2_push) requests in a connection.
### http2_max_concurrent_streams

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** http2_max_concurrent_streams `number`

**Default:** 128

**Context:** http, server


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the maximum number of concurrent HTTP/2 streams
in a connection.
### http2_max_field_size

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** http2_max_field_size `size`

**Default:** 4k

**Context:** http, server


{{</call-out>}}


This directive is obsolete since version 1.19.7.
The [large_client_header_buffers](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_core_module#large_client_header_buffers)
directive should be used instead.

Limits the maximum size of
an [HPACK](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7541)-compressed
request header field.
The limit applies equally to both name and value.
Note that if Huffman encoding is applied,
the actual size of decompressed name and value strings may be larger.
For most requests, the default limit should be enough.
### http2_max_header_size

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** http2_max_header_size `size`

**Default:** 16k

**Context:** http, server


{{</call-out>}}


This directive is obsolete since version 1.19.7.
The [large_client_header_buffers](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_core_module#large_client_header_buffers)
directive should be used instead.

Limits the maximum size of the entire request header list after
[HPACK](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7541) decompression.
For most requests, the default limit should be enough.
### http2_max_requests

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** http2_max_requests `number`

**Default:** 1000

**Context:** http, server

_This directive appeared in version 1.11.6._


{{</call-out>}}


This directive is obsolete since version 1.19.7.
The [keepalive_requests](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_core_module#keepalive_requests)
directive should be used instead.

Sets the maximum number of requests (including
[push](#http2_push) requests) that can be served
through one HTTP/2 connection,
after which the next client request will lead to connection closing
and the need of establishing a new connection.

Closing connections periodically is necessary to free
per-connection memory allocations.
Therefore, using too high maximum number of requests
could result in excessive memory usage and not recommended.
### http2_push

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** http2_push `uri` | `off`

**Default:** off

**Context:** http, server, location

_This directive appeared in version 1.13.9._


{{</call-out>}}


This directive is obsolete since version 1.25.1.

Pre-emptively sends
([pushes](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9113#section-8.4))
a request to the specified `uri`
along with the response to the original request.
Only relative URIs with absolute path will be processed,
for example:

```nginx
http2_push /static/css/main.css;

```


The `uri` value can contain variables.

Several `http2_push` directives
can be specified on the same configuration level.
The `off` parameter cancels the effect
of the `http2_push` directives
inherited from the previous configuration level.
### http2_push_preload

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** http2_push_preload `on` | `off`

**Default:** off

**Context:** http, server, location

_This directive appeared in version 1.13.9._


{{</call-out>}}


This directive is obsolete since version 1.25.1.

Enables automatic conversion of
[preload
links](https://www.w3.org/TR/preload/#server-push-http-2)
specified in the `Link` response header fields into
[push](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9113#section-8.4)
requests.
### http2_recv_buffer_size

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** http2_recv_buffer_size `size`

**Default:** 256k

**Context:** http


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the size of the per
[worker](/nginx/module-reference/../ngx_core_module#worker_processes)
input buffer.
### http2_recv_timeout

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** http2_recv_timeout `time`

**Default:** 30s

**Context:** http, server


{{</call-out>}}


This directive is obsolete since version 1.19.7.
The [client_header_timeout](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_core_module#client_header_timeout)
directive should be used instead.

Sets the timeout for expecting more data from the client,
after which the connection is closed.
## Embedded Variables


The `ngx_http_v2_module` module
supports the following embedded variables:
`$http2`
negotiated protocol identifier:
“`h2`” for HTTP/2 over TLS,
“`h2c`” for HTTP/2 over cleartext TCP,
or an empty string otherwise.
