---
title: ngx_http_gzip_module
description: ngx_http_gzip_module
toc: true
nd-org-source: http/ngx_http_gzip_module.xml
nd-plus: false
nd-partial-plus: false
---


<!--
      ********************************************************************************
      🛑 WARNING: AUTOGENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT 🛑 This Markdown file was
      automatically generated from the source XML documentation. Any manual
      changes made directly to this file will be overwritten. To request or
      suggest changes, please edit the source XML files instead.
      https://github.com/nginx/nginx.org/tree/main/xml/en
      ********************************************************************************
      -->


The `ngx_http_gzip_module` module is a filter
that compresses responses using the “gzip” method.
This often helps to reduce the size of transmitted data by half or even more.

When using the SSL/TLS protocol, compressed responses may be subject to
[BREACH](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BREACH) attacks.
## Example Configuration


```nginx
gzip            on;
gzip_min_length 1000;
gzip_proxied    expired no-cache no-store private auth;
gzip_types      text/plain application/xml;

```


The `$gzip_ratio` variable can be used to log the
achieved compression ratio.
## Directives

### gzip

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** gzip `on` | `off`

**Default:** off

**Context:** http, server, location, if in location


{{</call-out>}}


Enables or disables gzipping of responses.
### gzip_buffers

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** gzip_buffers `number` `size`

**Default:** 32 4k|16 8k

**Context:** http, server, location


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the `number` and `size` of buffers
used to compress a response.
By default, the buffer size is equal to one memory page.
This is either 4K or 8K, depending on a platform.

Until version 0.7.28, four 4K or 8K buffers were used by default.
### gzip_comp_level

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** gzip_comp_level `level`

**Default:** 1

**Context:** http, server, location


{{</call-out>}}


Sets a gzip compression `level` of a response.
Acceptable values are in the range from 1 to 9.
### gzip_disable

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** gzip_disable `regex` ...

**Default:** -

**Context:** http, server, location

_This directive appeared in version 0.6.23._


{{</call-out>}}


Disables gzipping of responses for requests with
`User-Agent` header fields matching
any of the specified regular expressions.

The special mask “`msie6`” (0.7.12) corresponds to
the regular expression “`MSIE [4-6]\.`”, but works faster.
Starting from version 0.8.11, “`MSIE 6.0; ... SV1`”
is excluded from this mask.
### gzip_http_version

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** gzip_http_version `1.0` | `1.1`

**Default:** 1.1

**Context:** http, server, location


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the minimum HTTP version of a request required to compress a response.
### gzip_min_length

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** gzip_min_length `length`

**Default:** 20

**Context:** http, server, location


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the minimum length of a response that will be gzipped.
The length is determined only from the `Content-Length`
response header field.
### gzip_proxied

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** gzip_proxied `off` | `expired` | `no-cache` | `no-store` | `private` | `no_last_modified` | `no_etag` | `auth` | `any` ...

**Default:** off

**Context:** http, server, location


{{</call-out>}}


Enables or disables gzipping of responses for proxied
requests depending on the request and response.
The fact that the request is proxied is determined by
the presence of the `Via` request header field.
The directive accepts multiple parameters:
`off`
disables compression for all proxied requests,
ignoring other parameters;
`expired`
enables compression if a response header includes the
`Expires` field with a value that disables caching;
`no-cache`
enables compression if a response header includes the
`Cache-Control` field with the
“`no-cache`” parameter;
`no-store`
enables compression if a response header includes the
`Cache-Control` field with the
“`no-store`” parameter;
`private`
enables compression if a response header includes the
`Cache-Control` field with the
“`private`” parameter;
`no_last_modified`
enables compression if a response header does not include the
`Last-Modified` field;
`no_etag`
enables compression if a response header does not include the
`ETag` field;
`auth`
enables compression if a request header includes the
`Authorization` field;
`any`
enables compression for all proxied requests.
### gzip_types

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** gzip_types `mime-type` ...

**Default:** text/html

**Context:** http, server, location


{{</call-out>}}


Enables gzipping of responses for the specified MIME types in addition
to “`text/html`”.
The special value “`*`” matches any MIME type (0.8.29).
Responses with the “`text/html`” type are always compressed.
### gzip_vary

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** gzip_vary `on` | `off`

**Default:** off

**Context:** http, server, location


{{</call-out>}}


Enables or disables inserting the `Vary: Accept-Encoding`
response header field if the directives
[](#gzip),
[gzip_static](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_gzip_static_module#gzip_static), or
[gunzip](/nginx/module-reference/http/ngx_http_gunzip_module#gunzip)
are active.
## Embedded Variables

`$gzip_ratio`achieved compression ratio, computed as the ratio between the
original and compressed response sizes.