---
title: ngx_mail_proxy_module
description: ngx_mail_proxy_module
toc: true
nd-org-source: mail/ngx_mail_proxy_module.xml
nd-plus: false
nd-partial-plus: false
---


<!--
********************************************************************************
🛑 WARNING: AUTOGENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT 🛑
This Markdown file was automatically generated from the source XML documentation.
Any manual changes made directly to this file will be overwritten.
To request or suggest changes, please edit the source XML files instead.
https://github.com/nginx/nginx.org/tree/main/xml/en
********************************************************************************
-->

## Directives

### proxy_buffer

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** proxy_buffer `size`

**Default:** 4k|8k

**Context:** mail, server


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the size of the buffer used for proxying.
By default, the buffer size is equal to one memory page.
Depending on a platform, it is either 4K or 8K.
### proxy_pass_error_message

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** proxy_pass_error_message `on` | `off`

**Default:** off

**Context:** mail, server


{{</call-out>}}


Indicates whether to pass the error message obtained during
the authentication on the backend to the client.

Usually, if the authentication in nginx is a success,
the backend cannot return an error.
If it nevertheless returns an error,
it means some internal error has occurred.
In such case the backend message can contain information
that should not be shown to the client.
However, responding with an error for the correct password
is a normal behavior for some POP3 servers.
For example, CommuniGatePro informs a user about
[mailbox
overflow](http://www.stalker.com/CommuniGatePro/Alerts.html#Quota) or other events by periodically outputting the
[authentication
error](http://www.stalker.com/CommuniGatePro/POP.html#Alerts).
The directive should be enabled in this case.
### proxy_protocol

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** proxy_protocol `on` | `off`

**Default:** off

**Context:** mail, server

_This directive appeared in version 1.19.8._


{{</call-out>}}


Enables the
[PROXY
protocol](http://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt) for connections to a backend.
### proxy_smtp_auth

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** proxy_smtp_auth `on` | `off`

**Default:** off

**Context:** mail, server

_This directive appeared in version 1.19.4._


{{</call-out>}}


Enables or disables user authentication on the SMTP backend
using the `AUTH` command.

If [XCLIENT](#xclient) is also enabled,
then the `XCLIENT` command will not send
the `LOGIN` parameter.
### proxy_timeout

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** proxy_timeout `timeout`

**Default:** 24h

**Context:** mail, server


{{</call-out>}}


Sets the `timeout` between two successive
read or write operations on client or proxied server connections.
If no data is transmitted within this time, the connection is closed.
### xclient

{{< call-out >}}

**Syntax:** xclient `on` | `off`

**Default:** on

**Context:** mail, server


{{</call-out>}}


Enables or disables the passing of the
[XCLIENT](http://www.postfix.org/XCLIENT_README.html)
command with client parameters when connecting to the SMTP backend.

With `XCLIENT`, the MTA is able to write client information
to the log and apply various limitations based on this data.

If `XCLIENT` is enabled
then nginx passes the following commands when connecting to the backend:

- `EHLO` with the [server name](/nginx/module-reference/mail/ngx_mail_core_module#server_name)
- `XCLIENT`
- `EHLO` or `HELO` , as passed by the client


If the name
[found](/nginx/module-reference/mail/ngx_mail_core_module#resolver)
by the client IP address points to the same address,
it is passed in the `NAME` parameter
of the `XCLIENT` command.
If the name could not be found, points to a different address,
or [resolver](/nginx/module-reference/mail/ngx_mail_core_module#resolver) is not specified,
the `[UNAVAILABLE]` is passed
in the `NAME` parameter.
If an error has occurred in the process of resolving,
the `[TEMPUNAVAIL]` value is used.

If `XCLIENT` is disabled
then nginx passes the `EHLO` command with the
[server name](/nginx/module-reference/mail/ngx_mail_core_module#server_name)
when connecting to the backend if the client has passed
`EHLO`,
or `HELO` with the server name, otherwise.
